NextJS: Support next/navigation in Next.js v13 (#20065)
storybookjs/storybook: code/frameworks/nextjs/README.md

}
```

#### AVIF

This format is not supported by this framework yet. Feel free to [open up an issue](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues) if this is something you want to see.

### Next.js Navigation

Please consider, that [next/navigation](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/upgrade-guide#step-5-migrating-routing-hooks) can only be used in components/pages of the `app` directory of Next.js v13 or higher.

#### Set `nextAppDirectory` to `app`

> If your story imports components, which uses `next/navigation`, you need to set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `app` in your Story:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your story imports components, which uses `next/navigation`, you need to set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `'app'` in your Story:
```

Reviewer: Oh, or maybe this should actually be:

```suggestion
If your story imports components, which uses `next/navigation`, you need to set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `true` in your Story:
```

I can't tell which is correct.

> If your story imports components, which uses `next/navigation`, you need to set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `true` in your Story:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your story imports components that use `next/navigation`, you need to set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `true` in your Story:
```

```js
// SomeComponentThatUsesTheRouter.stories.js
import SomeComponentThatUsesTheNavigation from './SomeComponentThatUsesTheNavigation';

export default {
  component: SomeComponentThatUsesTheNavigation,
};

// if you have the actions addon
// you can click the links and see the route change events there
export const Example = {
  parameters: {

>     nextAppDirectory: true,

Reviewer 2: WDYT about scoping this:

```
parameters: {
  nextjs: {
    appDirectory: true,
  }
}
```

This way we namespace the parameters and they will be easier to add TS types later

Reviewer: One of the parameters we copied from `storybook-addon-next` is `nextRouter`. We left it as-is to provide a smooth upgrade experience for users of that addon.

If we don't think that's important, I agree that this is better:

```
parameters: {
  nextjs: {
    appDirectory: ...,
    router: ...,
  }
}
```

Author: This would be a breaking change, especially if we want to move `parameters.nextRouter` to `parameters.nextjs.nextRouter`. What do you think? Is that ok for Storybook 7 to introduce that breaking change?

Author: Fixed. Take a look: https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/pull/20065/commits/1dbaac55216821e920e07f7e87d7872e9a9a7ea3

>     nextAppDirectory: true,

Reviewer: I think this should be:

```suggestion
    nextAppDirectory: 'app',
```

  },
},
```

> If your Next.js project doesn't have a `pages` directory, you can set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `true` in the [preview.js](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) file. Then the parameter is not needed in the stories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Next.js project uses the `app` directory for every page (in other words, it does not have a `pages` directory), you can set the parameter `nextAppDirectory` to `true` in the [preview.js](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) file to apply it to all stories.
```

```js
// .storybook/preview.js

export const parameters = {
  nextAppDirectory: true,
};
```

The parameter `nextAppDirectory` defaults to `false` if not set.

#### Default Navigation Context

> The default values on the stubbed navigation context are as follows (see [globals](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/essentials/toolbars-and-globals#globals) for more details on how globals work)

Reviewer 2: Where does this get set? I'm not sure I follow how this relates to globals??

Reviewer 2: I think you mean global parameters or project-level parameters.

```ts
const defaultNavigationContext = {
  push(...args) {
    action('nextNavigation.push')(...args);
  },
  replace(...args) {
    action('nextNavigation.replace')(...args);
  },
  forward(...args) {
    action('nextNavigation.forward')(...args);
  },
  back(...args) {
    action('nextNavigation.back')(...args);
  },
  prefetch(...args) {
    action('nextNavigation.prefetch')(...args);
  },
  refresh: () => {
    action('nextNavigation.refresh')();
  },
  pathname: '/',
  query: {},
};
```

#### Global Defaults

Global defaults can be set in [preview.js](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) and will be shallowly merged with the default router.

```js
// .storybook/preview.js

export const parameters = {

>   nextAppDirectory: true,

Reviewer 2: See my namespace comment above

#### Actions Integration Caveats

If you override a function, you lose the automatic action tab integration and have to build it out yourself.

```js
// .storybook/preview.js

export const parameters = {
  nextAppDirectory: true,
  nextNavigation: {
    push() {
      // The default implementation that logs the action into the action tab is lost
    },
  },
};
```

Doing this yourself looks something like this (make sure you install the `@storybook/addon-actions` package):

```js
// .storybook/preview.js
import { action } from '@storybook/addon-actions';

export const parameters = {
  nextAppDirectory: true,
  nextNavigation: {
    push(...args) {
      // custom logic can go here
      // this logs to the actions tab
      action('nextRouter.push')(...args);
      // return whatever you want here
      return Promise.resolve(true);
    },
  },
};
```

### Next.js Routing

[Next.js's router](https://nextjs.org/docs/routing/introduction) is automatically stubbed for you so that when the router is interacted with, all of its interactions are automatically logged to the [Storybook actions tab](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/essentials/actions) if you have the actions addon.

> You should only use `next/router` in the `pages` directory of Next.js v13 or higher. In the `app` directory it is necessary to use `next/navigation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should only use `next/router` in the `pages` directory of Next.js v13 or higher. In the `app` directory, it is necessary to use `next/navigation`.
```

}
```

#### AVIF

This format is not supported by this framework yet. Feel free to [open up an issue](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues) if this is something you want to see.

### Next.js Navigation

Please note that [next/navigation](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/upgrade-guide#step-5-migrating-routing-hooks) can only be used in components/pages of the `app` directory of Next.js v13 or higher.

> #### Set `nextjs.appDirectory` to `app`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Set `nextjs.appDirectory` to `true`
```

Please consider, that parameters are not deep merged. If you set `nextjs.appDirectory` to `true` in the [preview.js](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) file, you need to set it as well in your story, as soon as you want to set other options on the nextjs parameter.

#### Overriding defaults

> Per-story overrides can be done by adding a `nextjs.navigation` property onto the story [parameters](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/writing-stories/parameters). The framework will shallowly merge whatever you put here into the router.

Reviewer 2: Are you sure it's a shallow merge? Parameters typically perform a deep merge in Storybook with array replacement rather than merging

Global defaults can be set in [preview.js](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/configure/overview#configure-story-rendering) and will be shallowly merged with the default router.

```js

> // .storybook/preview.js

Reviewer: Thanks for catching these! 🙏

```ts
const defaultRouter = {
  push(...args) {
    action('nextRouter.push')(...args);
    return Promise.resolve(true);
  },
  replace(...args) {
    action('nextRouter.replace')(...args);
    return Promise.resolve(true);
  },
  reload(...args) {
    action('nextRouter.reload')(...args);
  },
  back(...args) {
    action('nextRouter.back')(...args);
  },
  forward() {
    action('nextRouter.forward')();
  },
  prefetch(...args) {
    action('nextRouter.prefetch')(...args);
    return Promise.resolve();
  },
  beforePopState(...args) {
    action('nextRouter.beforePopState')(...args);
  },
  events: {
    on(...args) {
      action('nextRouter.events.on')(...args);
    },
    off(...args) {
      action('nextRouter.events.off')(...args);
    },
    emit(...args) {
      action('nextRouter.events.emit')(...args);
    },
  },

>   locale: globals?.locale,

Reviewer 2: Where do I get access to `globals`? Is this code running in a decorator? Or in the story function? Or ... ?

Reviewer 2: Ok I see the code below & how it works. But I don't think this is super clear for the reader unless they go read the code. Perhaps something like:

```
The default router has access to `args` and `globals` in its local scope and is configured as follows:

....

As a user if you'd like to make use of `args` and `globals` to define the routing behavior you can ... (I don't actually know how this would look)
```
